Maristella Tapia: But I, in terms of you know, gamifying
Maristella Tapia: lessons. I I I agree. I wish I had the tech skills and the coding skills to do that so that I could do it sort of online or have it like technology based.
Maristella Tapia: I have used, and probably some of you all know this, but the jeopardy labs site. It's just an old website where you can create your own jeopardy game. But I use that as a midterm review for my students, and they always get really into it.
Maristella Tapia: But yeah, it's kind of hard to.
I feel like
Maristella Tapia: adults, aren't as fun. I think teaching adults, is it. I don't know. Maybe i'm wrong about that, but like it's, I feel like it's hard to bring
Maristella Tapia: games into of our adult environment
Maristella Tapia: in terms of college, but I might be wrong about that. I don't know
Brian Beatty: i'm trying to put a a a URL in the
Brian Beatty: in the chat uhaptivity captivity.com we used to use these this idea in creating e-learning things and something where you, basically you can buy access to templates and they can create Little used to be. I don't know if it was flash before, but like HTML 5 or something like that now.
Brian Beatty: Games so, and they would give you templates, and you just dump in your content, or, you know, for quizzes or other kinds of review activities and other kinds of thing very simple, not in not really in depth but to give that kind of game experience, and it's it they're They're really sold primarily to e-learning
Brian Beatty: developers in, and those are usually not in schools. And so what we found is that we always had adults almost in every context. We to built e-learning for that seem to love playing these these little games.
Brian Beatty: you know. We would put a board game together. We might use a jeopardy or wheel of fortune, or something like that, you know. Kind of re rescue it a little bit. So we didn't violate
Brian Beatty: intellectual property rights and all that stuff. But, Adam.
Adam Hill: Yeah, you kind of just answer my question with raptivity, because what I was saying was, I was
Adam Hill: I didn't. I wasn't too involved with this project, my company. But we were working with a professor in a public health program that had a course on maternal and child health, and she had designed this board game in person to help students kind of understand all the different factors that impact like women's health and
Adam Hill: birthing bodies. And it was a really interesting way to like, understand, just like sometimes the randomness that can happen and how how to develop
Adam Hill: policies around that. And so we were challenges like, how do you translate this very analog board game? She developed to online, and we ended up
Adam Hill: at the essentially like filming videos to kind of like
Adam Hill: help. Students understand how the game works. We couldn't find a way to translate it. But I was wondering if there are like
Adam Hill: easy plug and play instructional design tools like this one that can make, cause I mean, it's like
Adam Hill: It's pretty basic stuff to just like, Have a dice move things around us around a board and have it's. Really, there's something like this. So maybe this is what relativity is.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, it is, and it's not. It's not inexpensive. It's not something I would buy myself, but for a company who's investing in building E. Learning or other kinds of things, and having the rights to do all this over and over and over and over again. It's cheap.
Brian Beatty: right? And you can. I think you can buy different packs of templates to for different kinds of applications and things like that, so it it's the kind of thing that you know, gets you to a great up to a certain point in in the in the customer learning world. What we did is we would we would try to reuse the games we had already coded.
Brian Beatty: and as much as we could. But if we came up with a you know, a a design situation where we needed a different kind of game. Then we would. We would spend the time and resources to have our coders actually build it for us. But then in the back of our mind we always know. Okay. Now we have another game. You know that we can, you know re-skin and reuse and in other, you know they're
Adam Hill: and other other projects cool. So it's been around quite a while. It seems like
Brian Beatty: has been Yeah.
Brian Beatty: and there may be other sites like that, too. That's just the one I'm I'm most familiar with.
Brian Beatty: Now there was something else I was going to say I did start the recording so welcome to Session 9, I think, if I take 8, 30 for those of you who are watching the recording sorry we cut off the first 10 min or so of looking through the session. 8 discussion.
Brian Beatty: But that's what happens when I forget.
Brian Beatty: and no one reminds me. But it's not your job to remind me. Well, it looks like Stevens joining us to online, at least in the discussion for him.
Brian Beatty: Thanks for your comments, Steve. We'll have to look at those after class. He actually you posted that before class. So
Brian Beatty: right on time.
Maristella Tapia: I was wondering if anybody actually in here went to the
Maristella Tapia: an event that you posted about and trauma.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah, that's how it's so interesting about? I I couldn't make it. Did anybody get a chance to go? Because when you asked the question like, Are there some things that you can't gamify like? I would think trauma would be one of those, you know.
or you know, really heavy
Maristella Tapia: heavy topics that are traumatic would be one of those. But I I was really curious to to to learn more about it. And if you know, maybe if it was recorded.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, I don't know for sure, but I can probably look. Let me write a note to do that. I saw a couple of messages come in around that. But it I think that was probably reactions to the to the announcement.
Brian Beatty: I think I put it in the announcements, Didn't I?
Brian Beatty: Yeah, let's see. I don't know if anyone replied to this or not.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, well, Adam replied, and Tony replied, and Tony has a link here to some of her interviews, her media. So if you take a look, take a look at that link that might be helpful.
Brian Beatty: And this is the which organization is this.
Brian Beatty: Oh, it actually this is this is inside a aect which is an organization I'm. Part of. and I think that they probably recorded that. So I will look for that.
Brian Beatty: I'll ask.
Brian Beatty: I'm part of this division. I just didn't have time. I didn't find out about this until was it Monday morning.
Brian Beatty: and if I can find a recording. I'll see if I can share it with you.
Brian Beatty: I'm just writing it up to myself, not trying to double. Do multitask
Brian Beatty: too many words. Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. Well, that was that was last week.
Brian Beatty: This is this week. So this week we're we're really looking at 2 different things coding and making, and we haven't. We have an expert coder, at least one of them
Brian Beatty: in our class, Tony, who's professionally. This is his career. And so Tony was there I would I would be relying a little bit on his judgment as well. But Tony's not here. Live, Tony. I hope you're watching the recording, and then you can. You can correct me when I if I if I it looks like I'm misleading anybody as we kind of go through this. But I did ask. I gave you a few things to read
Brian Beatty: couple of things. Of course most of them are pretty simple. This coding in the elementary school classroom. Where is that one?
Brian Beatty: What was it called?
Brian Beatty: I thought I had it. Oh, there it is. this one simple little 4 Pager.
Brian Beatty: I'm wondering if. And this is this is for I think this is for yeah younger. I know many of you, Aren't teaching elementary school kids, but some of the things that they're talking about here. Some of the values that they get from even learning to add younger ages with simple coding applications, you know, are are are
Brian Beatty: benefits that can be, you know, kind of realize that almost any level, even adults right. Some of the things that you learn through this, and I know some of you probably use coding exercises in your own classes.
Brian Beatty: So did anybody. Did this appeal to anybody? Did this
Brian Beatty: convince you that this is something that maybe to be considered. Maybe not for your class.
Brian Beatty: but for others
Brian Beatty: is is coding, Does it? Does? Are they making a case? That coding is is something that would be valuable, maybe, to teach even at younger agents.
Adam Hill: I was kind of looking at it from like a workforce perspective of like if one school is doing it, and some schools are starting to do it then. Like just to think about like all it puts out their students at a disadvantage. If they're not no encoding, and, like you know
Adam Hill: me personally in my thirties, like i'm even thinking about like probably generations of workers that are like even 10 years younger than I am, because I know this has, you know this is from 2,014, like
Adam Hill: they probably know coding now, and so like. How are we? It almost seems like there's like that.
Adam Hill: There's just like a competition effect like you would want all students to know this. It's not. It's summer can only to learn it because it's definitely going to make them more
Adam Hill: competitive in all aspects of their. You know development and education
Brian Beatty: right well. the
Brian Beatty: the the this, this little book, chapter I asked you to read this introduction here. This is about Coding and K. 12,
Brian Beatty: and so this book is all about kind of exploring the values and the benefits of teaching coding even at in in the K 12 classrooms, right?
Brian Beatty: And there are. There is a lot of money being spent right now to help prepare teachers who are not in the computer science field to learn how to the basics of computer quoting programming so that they can actually teach it to their students, either in a class for a computer program or within the context of their
Brian Beatty: their domain. Specific class, like a science class, or even a history class, or things like that. There are tools and applications that can be used, and the principles can be used in various platforms, not necessarily just coding platforms.
Brian Beatty: But you, you know this whole idea of you know, engineering prompts for AI
Brian Beatty: or being AI whisper. Those kinds of ideas. I mean, there are some aspects of understanding how this system is working. This technical system is working behind the scenes that could help you actually, perhaps learn how to use it. Better to understand a little bit about how it's working, and how it understands language, those kinds of things.
Brian Beatty: So there is actually to continue my my original thought. There. There is a project at San Francisco State with there's a combination of of education, faculty and computer science faculty who are working, and do an annual kind of cohort-based approach. Teaching students are enough to students teachers in the San Francisco unified school district and other local school districts
Brian Beatty: how to the basics of computer programming
Brian Beatty: coding essentially, so that then they can use that with their students, and it's been going on for a couple of years now, and they've just got another, I think 3 or 4 million dollars from the National Science Foundation to continue and expand this grant. I think it's called Cs for all.
Brian Beatty: And so there's a lot of there's a lot of stuff going on towards this, I mean. I think it's still relatively low volume. As far as not a lot of
Brian Beatty: not a lot of teachers are being exposed to this. But teachers in every school pretty much are being exposed to this in in larger systems, at least.
Brian Beatty: And Delta, what do you want to say about this?
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, we we do a lot of this, anyway. I do a little bit of computer science in my classes. I some electives here and there.
Dalton Lobo Dias: and one that we set to space. That was a partnership through a company that was testing us, as you know, to see if students could actually handle design, the experiment
Dalton Lobo Dias: using lego software and hardware.
Dalton Lobo Dias: And the you know, this was just a group of 10 to 12 year olds, and they and they were able to do it.
Dalton Lobo Dias: There were some glitches along the way, but it was on
Dalton Lobo Dias: like NASA and spacex size. It wasn't our fault. but after the second launch it it did work. but of course they need a lot of scaffolding.
Dalton Lobo Dias: I I was there to teach it me and another teacher. The other teacher, was the more of the color
Dalton Lobo Dias: I I sort of facilitated the design thinking process there. But yeah, it's possible. And I think that there's more and more tools coming out that take the need for the teacher to be the expert
Dalton Lobo Dias: right? And so the teacher can be more of a facilitator. So another, yeah, like, for instance, micro bit has so much resources out there, and if you want to try something like this in your classroom.
Dalton Lobo Dias: you you don't need to be the expert.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. I I used to teach computer programming, and many, many years ago, and I found that there's more there. There's the software as the systems. We got to learn how to code. You got more comp more, I guess, complex. They also became less. It became less on me to be like the person showing them how to do this all the time, because now the platform could do that, and, like you, said
Brian Beatty: I could be more of the facilitator of the learning as long as I still knew a little bit more than many of them did, but still some of them would run ahead of me, and that's that was fine, because they were. They were diving into an area that I hadn't explored myself that much yet
Brian Beatty: so gave them. They gave them one of the things that you can give them is a sense of accomplishment, too, is they're building some stuff and solving some problems to make a computer do things that are potentially useful.
Brian Beatty: Not just an assignment. I can really go for it. We're we're gonna take a look at a couple of these sites here in just a second.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Maristella Tapia: sorry. Can I ask what is micro bit? I I looked at that website. It looks like a tiny little like microchip, but like what is it? What does it do? It? It's okay, if we don't have time. But I'm really curious.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, I get. I get. I talk about it. So it's it's a super. It's a very small computer that was made.
Dalton Lobo Dias: but with a partnership, the BBC. And Microsoft to put a small computer in the hands of every middle schooler in the Uk. So it's a it's a very small computer that has some inputs and some I. But so it is very small. So you plug into a computer, You code it. You set a code in there, and it will do a bunch of a bunch of different tasks.
Dalton Lobo Dias: So it's it's pretty neat. It's like a raspberry pi, but very much more simplified and cheaper.
Brian Beatty: Wait! What's the raspberry pi it up for something delicious.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Oh, by the way, I understand it's like it's it's a more complicated piece of hardware. So there's faster computing. There's I think.
Dalton Lobo Dias: the higher CPU power. You can attach more sensors to it. So it's it's a bit more involved, but the micro bit is is much more simplified. I think it's a much better entry to get into coding, because
Dalton Lobo Dias: it's kid proof. It's very. It's very robust.
Dalton Lobo Dias: It's not intimidating, and you can very quickly make some games with it. So that's our the hook.
Brian Beatty: So how does it get for a kids who's just starting out for this screen. A screen like this not to be intimidating.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, this is probably not the best screen to start with the best screen is the second link that I dropped in there the projects
Dalton Lobo Dias: that that one is more for the teachers.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Dalton Lobo Dias: yeah, to get started, maybe. And yeah, so that that thing on the left is the it's front face that has little lights, and then on the back. So you see there's 2 buttons. So I treat this as a jurisdict. And then in the back, there's a accelerometer. There's a bluetooth, so you could have them talk to each other
Dalton Lobo Dias: that we're talking to each other. There is a temperature, sensor, light, sensor.
Dalton Lobo Dias: What else is there? So it's. It's very simple, and you can code it
Dalton Lobo Dias: like sort of Java type, code or Python type code, or you can code it with a drag and drop scratch style code. And that is.
Dalton Lobo Dias: you know, way simpler for us to to start going right and you can. You can do something very small like, Make a smiley face on the screen.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, let's take a look at some of these other.
Brian Beatty: We got some of these other sites loaded up here that are often used in coding for kids.
Brian Beatty: And so
Brian Beatty: What's this? First one is the Google site Google for education. Cs versus Have you used this side of anybody? Use this side?
Adam Hill: No.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So it's a Google site.
Brian Beatty: and you can get started with it and learn how to basically do coding. Either. You know, student teacher, etc. And you, I guess you have to log in.
Brian Beatty: I'm wonder if you can just get in with your regular Google account all my accounts. Let's try this one. See if this one has the magic. Now, it's another thing connected to my Google universe. Yeah. it's not going to get ads for
Brian Beatty: I don't know what.
Brian Beatty: Okay? So you have to sign up.
Brian Beatty: All right. I'm looking for Crick, and we teach my students.
Brian Beatty: and let's use Dr. Bailey. I got asked the other day
Brian Beatty: what kind of doctor I was, I said, Well, i'm not really a doctor, a medical because I was talking to medical people.
Brian Beatty: Let's go for school. Oh, was a nice I don't know. What do I want to be today? Hmm.
Brian Beatty: Let's go up north. Well, up up the hill. Let's go to trucky. Yeah, I don't know what this is.
Brian Beatty: Oops
Brian Beatty: colleague.
Brian Beatty: Yes. start teaching.
Brian Beatty: So we're kind of walking through this to see what it would take.
Brian Beatty: Check out your dashboard, create a class and explore. Okay, Got it. I don't want to create a class.
Brian Beatty: So
Brian Beatty: then i'd have to go in here. I guess
Brian Beatty: I start doing this. Let's see. We can find some projects. Oh, these are my projects.
Brian Beatty: Here we go, correct, you know. Hands on lessons with instructional videos.
Adam Hill: Hmm.
Brian Beatty: We'll do take a look at the left. Look at it.
Brian Beatty: scratch for Cs. So scratch is the Mit simple programming. awesome. Let's take a look.
Adam Hill: The scratch considered a language itself, because I feel like I've heard of other.
Adam Hill: I guess it is. This is like the style of program Gotcha. Okay.
Brian Beatty: yeah, I guess you'd probably call it. I don't know if you'd call it a language.
Brian Beatty: It's a platform to use.
Brian Beatty: So I have a a lesson. I'm gonna do a quick tour.
Brian Beatty: I don't need that?
Brian Beatty: Okay?
Brian Beatty: Okay. I'm: supposed to do that. Okay, let's get coding.
Brian Beatty: Okay. So you can see what this is. What what do you? What are Some of your comments already just by looking at this.
Brian Beatty: What level of student do you think this would be appropriate for? Or maybe is there a level where you this would just not work, for you know where you know it's gotta be probably older students than that.
Maristella Tapia: and we see how you do it. How do you actually do it like, how do you?
Maristella Tapia: Is the object to make the little hedgehog move
Brian Beatty: taking a walk.
Maristella Tapia: So do we. Just do you drag and drop those things from that that side to the other side, or
Brian Beatty: I haven't done this. So I don't I don't know exactly. I think this is these are your motion controls, and then you can do looking controls. So you've got it like a toolbox over here on the left.
Brian Beatty: and then you gonna drag things out here on to the whatever. I guess this is the code we're doing, and so this is supposed to say, let's go for 2 s. Say hello for 2 s. Say, it looks like a nice day walk 2 s, and then I have to build in the walk
Brian Beatty: right, so maybe I have to move. move 10 steps. and I don't know this turn.
Brian Beatty: I don't know where that would go. Maybe here and there must be a way to play this as well, but I don't know exactly where that is. So. It's something that you could play around with if you wanted to. But you
Brian Beatty: clearly it's relied on. There's a lot of text here, and so someone's gonna have to have reading skills in English. I don't know it could be. I don't know if this could be translated or not.
Brian Beatty: maybe like my third grader could do it.
Maristella Tapia: You like 8 or 9.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, as long as you can understand, you know the language here, the words, so
Brian Beatty: that's that's one of the things that you know a lot of coding languages still rely a lot on language. And so that is one of the factors. That kind of keep some students from being able to do them
Brian Beatty: use them, maybe as well as others.
Adam Hill: and and like the way it's. W. Would you call this gamified on some level because it of the way that they're adding this hedgehog moving around, which leaves me to think that like something like this, like maybe a high school, or
Adam Hill: wouldn't be as excited about.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, maybe. But I tell you when I learn how to code and or just create the the, you know stuff in the predecessor of Flash
Brian Beatty: with a Mac Ormedia director way back, when the first things we did were just move little ball balls around a screen
Brian Beatty: and just getting them to move in a controlled manner was was something that most of us at least seem to be really happy about. Look what we are. Do we got to even back in. I don't know if you've ever I don't know if any of you are old enough to remember Hypercard days, but just using a Hypercard stack to get something to move on. The screen
was such an accomplishment the first time you do it.
Brian Beatty: I mean, you know these are 20 something 30, something 40, something year old people saying, Wow.
Brian Beatty: this is so cool that what we're able to do because you could do it yourself. Not just allow, you know. Rely on some other programmer who would build it for you.
Brian Beatty: and so I don't know that I don't know that the hedgehog itself is. You know it. It. You know it's like cute, etc. It's not something that a lot of high school kids would probably pick if they had to, but if they could get it to move in a way they wanted to.
Brian Beatty: it would be interesting to see how they would make it move. But then I and I think if they knew this was in the context of just learning how to create. You know some structured language here, and put it together in a way that would make it do what you're telling it to do. I think they I think most of them would be able to say, okay.
Brian Beatty: I'm not gonna build this for myself, but it is a it is a way for me to learn how to make this, anyway.
Brian Beatty: and then going on to something more complicated.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. So well that's that's that's the this: the Google site. So there's a lot of stuff built in there, and I Haven't explored it well enough to really understand exactly how it works, but it's it's a Google site. And so there's gonna be a lot of.
Brian Beatty: There's been a lot of a lot of design i'm sure put into this. I'm not sure if they sponsor projects out of, or things like that. But scratch itself is something that is, a project that was has been run out of Mit
Brian Beatty: for a long time. I don't know exactly how long it's been there for quite a while. It's. These are some of the projects that they do there, and this is another one that students can. You know this classic to make to help students kind of learn how to drag and drop kind of programming rather than typing out things out. So here's a I don't know. You could look at some of the projects.
Brian Beatty: and you can see what's going on here.
Brian Beatty: and so they have. They wrote code just to make this happen
Brian Beatty: right, and then you can take a look inside.
Brian Beatty: And this is the this is the code that they end up building. So you can see this is the scratch interface. just like we saw on the other side the Cs, the the Google Cs one.
Brian Beatty: Another interesting thing about what they built here where it was it if I want to, if I want to hide that. Oh, you can control it's got some controllers built in.
Brian Beatty: so you can make it go faster or slower.
Brian Beatty: You can change the number of waves right.
Brian Beatty: and you can look at whatever the quality would be, whatever that is. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: there you go.
Brian Beatty: and so that so what you could if you want, if you're interested in looking at this.
Brian Beatty: Take a look at the various projects, lots of different things, and they they can get a lot more complicated than that, obviously.
Brian Beatty: But they're also good good things for simple things, and what it does is it teaches them this: the idea of the structured language that the computer will only do what you tell it to do in the order that you tell it to do it. It can make some decisions if you kind of set up that decision like a looping decision.
Brian Beatty: you know. Keep doing this until this other thing is set. You get understanding the concepts of variables and all the kinds of things.
Brian Beatty: All right, let me let me load this when you put it into the chat.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, this one is really impressive. My student included our equations of acceleration and gravity into it.
Dalton Lobo Dias: So I don't remember exactly how he did it, but
Dalton Lobo Dias: yet, so that simulations shows things following the earth, mars the moon, an asteroid, and an exoplanet.
Dalton Lobo Dias: and so he had to include the acceleration equation there, which is pretty neat. And if you change the mass, the the the free fall doesn't change.
Brian Beatty: which is what you would expect. It's really it's really well done. That's right. Fool me right. Let's pull it all over. It'll just drop right down. Gravity works
Dalton Lobo Dias: Well, this one is going so slow. Which is this one an asteroid.
Brian Beatty: Okay. So let me ask someone, not Dalton.
Brian Beatty: Why would it be dropping so much slower on an asteroid compared to these other, these other celestial bodies or not celestial with the planetary bodies. Maybe
Brian Beatty: anyone know.
Amanda Deigan: I don't really know, but I can try. Can you tell me again what the other like once Earth and One's
Dalton Lobo Dias: Mars Moon, the asteroid, and the next the planet
Brian Beatty: exoplanet, which is like what? What Pluto has been relegated to.
Dalton Lobo Dias: That's the door planet that's around another star. It is huge. It's much heavier than you.
Amanda Deigan: Does. It have something to. I don't know how to like, say what i'm thinking. Does it have something to do with the fact that, like
Amanda Deigan: the asteroid, is like moving through space in the sense of like, not in its own like orbit.
Brian Beatty: No, that's not it. No.
Amanda Deigan: okay cool.
Brian Beatty: I could ask you. Well, okay, so why do you think that it might be? And then we could explore that? But we're not going to do that?
Brian Beatty: No, it doesn't have anything to do with the it doesn't have anything to do really with the motion.
Brian Beatty: because I think what we would assume is that the the following object is within the same motion, you know. System, I guess, of of the object itself.
Brian Beatty: like a like someone falling on the earth, is gonna fall to the earth. And they're actually moving through space just as fast as the earth is moving through space, you know, with maybe some very, very, very slight, different differences. But they're still moving.
Brian Beatty: They also want to give it a try.
Adam Hill: Is it the weight of gravity, or something like that.
Brian Beatty: independent of Well. it is. It is actually has to do with the force of gravity.
Brian Beatty: right, and that depends on the mass of the 2 of the objects involved. And so the the more massive, the like, the the, the, the that it's falling down to is
Brian Beatty: the higher that force would be so if we, if we what what this is not really the purpose of this whole thing.
Brian Beatty: I mean, I are looking at it. But
Brian Beatty: you can. This this is a way you can use this, or I guess I lost it. Let me go back to it.
Brian Beatty: How do I? How do I reset this?
Dalton Lobo Dias: Oh, the the black at the the tops or or the green? Yeah, okay, the green runs it again.
Brian Beatty: right? And so yeah.
Brian Beatty: And you can look at the code. So you you did the student do this by themselves, or was it a a group?
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, just because it himself and show it to me. And it's like, boo me away, I I You know I haven't. I Haven't looked at this in a while. But I wonder if he actually got the derivative there? It seems he seems like, yeah, so he's got the 9.8. There
Dalton Lobo Dias: he's got it, You know that he's got the distance changing
Dalton Lobo Dias: with the time twice. So it's the change of the change, which is an acceleration.
Dalton Lobo Dias: So yeah, I mean it. It
Dalton Lobo Dias: It kind of works.
Brian Beatty: Sixth grade. That's crazy. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Dalton Lobo Dias: this is from a few years ago and and Scratch was very popular at the time.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, these days. I think I see my students like just using regular code
Dalton Lobo Dias: scratch. Seems to be kind of
Brian Beatty: moved down the grades so earlier grades. You're really great, too. Okay, there's another another one, just really, briefly. I wanted to show you around the coding aspect. There's there's these things that they're called code clubs. I don't know if they're as popular as they they used to be. But there's there were code clubs. I think it was in the Uk. And the Us. And Australia.
Brian Beatty: And what these are able to do is to provide opportunities for students to, you know, to basically work, you know, in a kind of a socialized atmosphere to learn how to do coding in various projects and things like this. I don't know if these numbers are still valid. They probably are. I mean it's so. It's a website still is working.
Brian Beatty: but that's a couple of 100,000 students around the world who are learning how to do this in a 160 different countries.
Brian Beatty: Wow! So you can look more about this if you want to take a look at some of the projects that they're doing when my kids were in some of my older kids were in high school. This is quite a while ago.
Brian Beatty: What was this?
Brian Beatty: 15 years ago? Maybe they were involved in a competition called botball.
Brian Beatty: and this was this was a a a thing that you had to learn how to program a robot to do a come, do some, you know, take some balls from one part in a in a plane area and move them in another into another area, maybe put them over a a a height, or something like that. Anyway, it was a competition.
Brian Beatty: and so they would. They would have these robots. Each team would run their robot against another team and then have a timed competition. And you would, basically you know, work your way up a ladder, you know, against, you know, kind of like the Ncaa, a tournament, or any any other kind of tournament playing against the your comp opponents, and they'd move up
Brian Beatty: up, up, up in brackets. And
Brian Beatty: it was a long project, and they would have engineers volunteer their time for like one afternoon a week to work with these teams, and then the team would work with the engineer, and they talk about the design process. They have to build the robot from a kit. But then they also had to program the robot, and that to do all the testing, and they they by big part of it was the documentation that they would be expected to have, you know, kind of as an engineering kind of project.
Brian Beatty: And so this was our our the team, our kids, but they they ended up being
Brian Beatty: like a second place or third place in the competition over all for the for the actual movement of the robot, as far as how well they could do the task. They were second place in their documentation, so that they learned
Brian Beatty: a lot about this, and then the various people on the team they could focus on different er. Some of them were stronger in the programming. Some of them may have been stronger, and the kind of the mechanical putting things together. Some of them may have been stronger, and the documentation side of it, and so they were able to kind of work as a group, but also develop a little bit of
Brian Beatty: of, you know, work in their strength as well as working overall as a group. And so and I just. I just saw on the news the other day.
Brian Beatty: So it was called
Brian Beatty: that there was another competition that a local school was was going to be in.
Brian Beatty: you know, some national competition for it. Did anyone notice that it's like Monday or Tuesday? It's on the local news, anyone watching, if I know what that which is local news.
Brian Beatty: And it it looked very similar. It was not the same, but it would look very similar where they they had a like a robotic kind of thing, and it would have to do a certain task, and i'm sure there was coding involved with that as well as as well as just building them. You know the the the the device
Brian Beatty: erez agmoni. But for the the students who get involved in these kinds of things, you know. Oftentimes they find this to be a really rewarding and interesting and very engaging way of of learning, and they learn things 250,
Brian Beatty: you know. Some of them are STEM kinds of things that are, but they also learn so much about working together as a team and communication a clear communication, and especially when there's written communication, as well as maybe presentation information, as well as just communicating to each other
Brian Beatty: that there there are things that they can get involved in and and solving problems like this problem solving itself that you know they just don't. Don't often get in their their regular cricket, or or or maybe they do. But it's a great opportunity for for many of them, if you've got, you know, kind of the resources. So
Brian Beatty: all right.
Brian Beatty: Okay. So coding
Brian Beatty: and Tony, as you're watching this, you can bring into the discussion anything you wanted to say about any of those other ones, I know, probably would have had some things to say
Brian Beatty: in in our live environment. Let's take a few minutes and talk a little bit about making, and how is it similar? Maybe? How is a little different? I gave you one chapter to take a look at.
Brian Beatty: and I believe it's over here. I think I have it loaded up here. This is a chapter, and I what I gave you was like a advanced strap, because this this was a a chapter that went into a book I was an editor for, and so I just had this this copy laying around. It was easy for me to share for you.
Brian Beatty: and it talk. I think what I One thing I like about is, it does a good job of kind of introducing the whole idea of, you know, maker and maker space and things like that. And then it talks about a specific project that they did, and how they found that they were getting some value for students. And what was what was actually what were students walking away with?
Brian Beatty: Right? So the in the different principles about doing maker space ideas as well as situational principles for their particular situation. You know, using this idea of inquiry. You know other value that they're getting from it. In this concept of prototyping failure refinement. If you did, you read this
Brian Beatty: should be easy to read.
Brian Beatty: written like a good Apa paper.
Brian Beatty: Okay? Well, I would encourage you to read it if you're interested in that at all. And
Brian Beatty: what's what we'll do then now is, take a break.
Brian Beatty: and then we'll come back, and we'll do a breakouts and then the breakouts you can. You're gonna do a maker space kind of activity
Brian Beatty: task. And so if you haven't read that, maybe take a quick scan at that, or maybe look at some other resources around this because i'm gonna ask you to do a little bit of a a simple kind of a design act activity as if you had
Brian Beatty: space, time and money to create, a make a space for and an educational environment. So but before we do that. let's pause. Let's take a let's take a 5 min break and come back at
Brian Beatty: 7 55 Pm. Pacific time.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: I may be the only one here, but i'm going to get started. There is as far as the Maker space. I do. Besides that reading, there's lots of other resources. You can take a look at this for Maker spaces.
Brian Beatty: There's a few things that are linked in the the chat. There are 3 different links in there. I know they look like they're kind of running together. But if you click on, you know the first one or the middle one or the last one, they should come up with different places. If they don't, I can repost them. But some of you probably use maker spaces. Don't you.
Brian Beatty: or maybe not, or maybe. No, no, no one's here. I will say that the University has some maker space stuff in the digital media studio Next week some of you will be here on campus earlier before, or a regular class
Brian Beatty: to look at the VR. Stuff they have. Well, in the same same general area. They also have some maker maker materials, and so i'll i'll. I'm gonna talk to stop over there tomorrow and talk to them. Maybe there'd be something interesting to see with that
Brian Beatty: for about that, too. But I don't think that they have a thing that's well developed like you would find in most spaces. schools, libraries, other places I've been doing maker spaces for a while. This is done at all levels universities as well as you know high schools, middle schools, lower grades.
Brian Beatty: It's a place where you can make stuff, you know, intentionally.
Brian Beatty: and you know, solve maybe solve a problem that you're doing or creating something to meet some particular need or things like that. You can learn design skills, lots of different things
Brian Beatty: for those of you who use maker spaces, any any guidance on what or any any ideas on. are they? What makes them click?
Dalton Lobo Dias: I will say, my school. What I observe is that you know, whenever they make their projects.
Dalton Lobo Dias: I really remember to the kids
Dalton Lobo Dias: or some kind of challenge, right? Maybe there's always some kind of problems. So in eighth grade they get to do like a a sort of thesis type project. I don't forget what it is called like. Call quest, or something like that.
Dalton Lobo Dias: And some kids build guitars. Some of these code
Dalton Lobo Dias: other kids create, maybe wearables, technology wearable. So
Dalton Lobo Dias: having some choice element is really powerful, especially for the older kids. And yeah, anything that involves you
Dalton Lobo Dias: like something that you can make and crash and
Dalton Lobo Dias: like, break it like that stuff seems to really get gets excited. And also, you know, relevant problems in the community that they can work towards solver.
Dalton Lobo Dias: I think
Dalton Lobo Dias: I think one of the challenge for sort of designing projects is that sometimes you can slip into sort of Savior Wisdom territory.
Dalton Lobo Dias: So it's the you know. Going back to. I think somebody mentioned was asking about how to to like. Sort of have your subjects in in this types of classes, and it is kind of tough right, because oftentimes they go through these projects without really acknowledging the massive amount
Dalton Lobo Dias: of budget and money and privilege that goes into setting up these spaces.
Dalton Lobo Dias: And
Dalton Lobo Dias: so yeah, that's something that I I I haven't really seen
Dalton Lobo Dias: done well yet. But I do have the kids really love this class. It's it's it's one of the best that we have, and it's sort of like that. Our
Dalton Lobo Dias: we're a pioneer, I guess in in doing this kind of thing back in the day. So it's definitely a calling cart.
Brian Beatty: you know.
Brian Beatty: When I, When I see
Brian Beatty: pictures of these things. It reminds me of what what I would see sometimes like during in the physics labs I was teaching. When we did projects we we were building projects we were learning about. You know, statics, forces, and things like that, or building projects to. You know the rocket project to shoot things oftentimes that whole space
Brian Beatty: which it would be full of stuff that they could use to build things and test things.
Brian Beatty: And then you know, that would be part of what we're doing so, you know some of the principles, even though I wouldn't have called it a maker space. We were doing that just not in a space. That's all was there. That's we got lots of different materials that they might be able to pick and choose from differently. It was usually kind of more structured for the specific projects we were working on.
Maristella Tapia: My daughter.
Maristella Tapia: We have a I volunteered at it at sometimes in her Maker Space
Maristella Tapia: area, the Kid, the school, but it's public school. So
Maristella Tapia: probably unlike your school, Dalton ours, ours is really
Maristella Tapia: focused on reusing materials. So it's just they the kids. Basically it's kind of just like crafting, and they just they repurpose like egg cartons and milk cartons, and just
Maristella Tapia: it. It's it's really focusing on very low cost materials, and and the kids are very creative. They make all kinds of really cool things
Maristella Tapia: from like basically stuff that would be trash.
Maristella Tapia: and it kind of sucks as a parent, because they come home with all these projects that just take up space in your house, and you don't want to throw away. But then they're really creative, you know, like my kid, made a purse out of like
Maristella Tapia: some old egg cartons the other day. So
Maristella Tapia: I I I feel what you're saying about the Saviorism thing, but I also think that it kind of just depends on on the materials that are there, and the the resources. And and you can also have it be a lesson, and how we can like repurpose things and reuse things with creativity and stuff like that. So
Brian Beatty: so what's the value of that for the for the students. Do you think
Maristella Tapia: I think it's more for them? It's a little bit more artistic like One thing I've noticed is they, and I think it's. This is just an instructional flaw, but they don't really get a whole lot of guidance.
Maristella Tapia: you know. It's just more like Have at it like, Go find something you want to work with and decide what it's gonna be, you know.
Maristella Tapia: And in some ways I think that's really cool, because
Maristella Tapia: it's just kind of free play with materials that you don't always get to do. And and my my kid will just
Maristella Tapia: make all kinds of different things. She's really crafty, and she so like the other day she's like, I think, today in maker space. I'm gonna make some rats out of pine tones like, you know, like she had an idea of what she wanted to do, and then she turned around and sold each one of them for a penny. She said. So she made a little business out of it.
Maristella Tapia: But I I think that part of that i'm structured just like have at it. Kind of thing is really cool, especially like in the public school system that's so like.
Maristella Tapia: so structured and just focus on standards and focus on like, I think it's a really nice respite for them. But I I I kind of do think, though, like I I want to see what Dalton's maker space looks like, because I imagine they have the kids there like creating water filters for like
Maristella Tapia: countries that don't have, or access to possible water, or something like you know what I mean, I mean, they're probably on the verge of some like Elon Musk type of like discoveries, or something like that, whereas my kids making pine cones into rats. So you know.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, I mean, the trash thing is a real problem. My cost can be so messy during certain certain units. I know that there's also some very skilled teachers out there that are trying to do like 0 waste design thinking challenges.
Dalton Lobo Dias: I. You know I haven't quite figured out how to do that, but I've definitely switched away from like using a lot of plastic like I used to do like the egg drop challenge with straws, but then we switch to like paper straws
Dalton Lobo Dias: so that they're going to recycle. So things like that. So, and at the middle school
Dalton Lobo Dias: we have like a wood shop on one end, and then, like a table with threed printers, they're They're small.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Then a laser cutter, and and just that goes a long way.
Dalton Lobo Dias: I know it's very expensive, but it it's it's a really good place to start. And then in the upper school, and I tool this. They have much fancy machines like Cnc machines and
Dalton Lobo Dias: a bunch of other stuff that we don't have the middle school
Dalton Lobo Dias: little metal. I guess it's a better description for it.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Wasn't that like a computer controlled kind of thing, and so they could cut like aluminum and things like that.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So with your if people are using these big table kind of cutters to to big, you know, designs and doors and windows and things like that. They're using C and C kind of machines
Brian Beatty: I don't even. I don't know what C. And C stands for myself. But but I I know what I see it so. Yeah. But I put the link of what the what the ile looks like over there. This is like from the architects when they built it.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Oh, and that you will notice that there's like huge garage doors on it. So that's really because you want it's like spill outdoors.
Dalton Lobo Dias: because the space is a big problem like you want to have a lot of space for students and adults. Anybody, too. It's like really spread out and
Dalton Lobo Dias: and use outdoors Phase 2.
Brian Beatty: Okay. Well, so here's what we're going to do. I'm gonna share the screen again if we If you look at the breakout notes for today Session 9, it's all about either coding or making. And so i'm gonna give you 3 options. We're gonna do 3 breakout rooms.
Brian Beatty: Well, there's 3 breakout room opportunities. But i'm gonna let you let you choose your breakout room, and so the first breakout room would be. The maker would be the coding. So if you want to, if you want to talk about how coding could fit into your instructional context.
Brian Beatty: Not in a computer science course, but like in a regular course, how that might be worth worth worth worth worthwhile for your learners. You can talk about that. You can join. That would be the first
Brian Beatty: breakout room, though. You'll see them in just a second, and then there's 2 different ones around makerspace. And what i'd like you to do is to take on the challenge of doing a simple, you know, basically back on the napkin style. Kind of design, little diagram, maybe a list of things you would do, the other kinds of things you would need to have in place
Brian Beatty: to to create a maker space for a school environment and instructional environment, probably a school, but 2 different challenges. The first one has lots of money. You got a big grant
Brian Beatty: or or a donors with big pockets, and so you can have up to a couple of $100,000. But you won't. You don't have very much space spaces there you're limiting resource. 200 square feet.
Brian Beatty: That's that's that could be plenty of space. Maybe that's even too much. But let's just say 200 square foot, and then the other one would be okay. You've got lots of space, but you don't have much money right? You could have, I don't know. Perhaps a 1,000 square feet. That's a lot of space.
Brian Beatty: but only $10,000, you know, for your startup, you know, for, like your first year or so of operations, what would you? What would you be able to do? Do you think you know what would? What would it be designed? What would you want to support? Kind of activities?
Brian Beatty: Kind of making what you want to support? Why, you know, what would the what might the space look like, you know. Kind of diagramming it. What might it look like? Just a a a a concept? How would you? Maybe maybe part of the money would go to staffing. I don't know you. You kind of decide.
Brian Beatty: or other kinds of things. What kind of what kind of equipment would you think you'd want to put in there to get started.
Brian Beatty: and sometimes this equipment is quite expensive. Sometimes it's not expensive at all. You might find that these these limitations, Aren't. Really limitations. You can do everything you want to do, you know, without worrying about the money or the square feet. But those are just to get you focused a little bit on some different things there.
Brian Beatty: so you can pick Maker Space Challenge one that would be a maker space challenge to which would be be, or or the coding discussion applying it to an instructional context, not computer science.
Brian Beatty: And
Brian Beatty: so that's that's what we'll do. We'll do that for I don't know probably 2025 min. I'll check in with your groups to see how you're doing and then we'll do a debrief, and this will work as long as everybody doesn't choose the same, the same place.
Brian Beatty: And what so that if you, if you want to choose one of the maker space challenges, and there's already like 4 people in there. Then pick the other one.
Brian Beatty: and i'll I I can work on, you know, balancing students as well. So If there's too many students in one group and not enough in the other, i'll lose someone over and let you know. And i'm doing that.
Brian Beatty: Okay. questions.
Brian Beatty: Okay, Well, let's see what you come up with. Now for those of you listening to the recording, our asynchronous learners. You get to join in on one of these as well. Add your comments to one of the areas. Add your name to it, so that I know that you've been part of this as well, and that'll help. Help me decide whether or not you're You're participating in this this particular week for that
Brian Beatty: 10% of your class credit it's based on participation.
Brian Beatty: and 10% for the discussion and 10% for the reflections and blah blah, blah, blah alright, okay, Well, i'm going to pause the recording then, and i'll i'll. I'll launch these rooms, and and I will see you in the rooms. I'll start checking in, probably in about 10 or 15 min.
Maristella Tapia: Sorry to just leave you guys like that. I accidentally click the button. It just popped up, and I like she's gone.
Maristella Tapia: Probably was leaving before you guys assigned the speaker.
Brian Beatty: the spokesperson.
Brian Beatty: So all right. Well, let's start with Group one.
Brian Beatty: I think group one was working way up here.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, I I I can get that right?
Brian Beatty: Okay, we
Dalton Lobo Dias: we talked about how we already, You know, most people are already using some form of coding. I guess if we could define coding, as
Dalton Lobo Dias: you know, some some commands to get things done where we use a lot of that right home assistance, Siri Alexa. Things like that. Those are sort of, for you know, voice commands code in code form.
Dalton Lobo Dias: We also know that a lot of people are already using Chat Chip to to write code for them
Dalton Lobo Dias: and also coding. It all really takes a lot place in like spreadsheets, right like functions and spreadsheets. I guess it will be a form of coding, automating tasks so that you don't have to calculate everything individually.
Dalton Lobo Dias: So yeah, coding is just. you know, a language to get things done that computers can help us out with.
Dalton Lobo Dias: And Linda mentioned that in her recruiting world
Dalton Lobo Dias: there is a lot of folks who will even add the language that they are proficient in
Dalton Lobo Dias: in their resume, so to communicate which language they use in code in language.
Dalton Lobo Dias: But also there's a lot of drag and drop. you know, websites or or tools
Dalton Lobo Dias: that are kind of like. Scratch right? They're doing the coding behind the scenes. So you don't have to know the language. So, for instance, like a articular rise, or whatever you don't have to code.
Dalton Lobo Dias: They interface right. You just sort of drag and drop the the features that you want. and that seems to remove the barriers and having to learn coding, because.
Dalton Lobo Dias: you know, if the pool is kind of like, drag and drop, maybe you don't need to to line.
Dalton Lobo Dias: and also things like slack. You can code your own chat bots, or you can discour tubes. That's kind of like coding in a way.
Dalton Lobo Dias: We also talked about automation, and that, you know some things have been pretty slow to automate like our taxes right? Federal State taxes are a very slow process, something that could pretty be pretty easily or admitted.
Dalton Lobo Dias: But there's a lot of, you know, pressures lobbying power, that kind of thing that keeps those things from happening
Dalton Lobo Dias: these schools also. There is a lot of.
Dalton Lobo Dias: you know, slow push to automate things because there are some things that people still want to be highly, you know, sort of human high touch things like assessment student assessment.
Dalton Lobo Dias: I experience that as a teacher, too like if there's something that could actually increase my capacity to teach
Dalton Lobo Dias: to. You know, sort of automate some of the more simpler tasks that'll be great. But schools are pretty reluctant to to make that happen.
Dalton Lobo Dias: and I think
Dalton Lobo Dias: I think that's the majority. Do you guys want to add anything else, Linda or Danny?
Danny Cheng: No, I think it's a great great job. That's mostly things we discussed.
Brian Beatty: Well, what what happens? What if if you've been in the situation where you're in some production capacity? Let's say you're a teacher kind of working with students. That is still a production kind of thing, though we normally wouldn't think of it that way. And all of a sudden, now, you're using technology become more efficient.
Brian Beatty: And you've got an overlord over you, a supervisor who sees that?
Brian Beatty: What do you think they're gonna do? I? Do you think they're gonna say, oh, well, yeah, why don't you just take more time and do the softer side of this? You know, skills, the relationship things, the counseling of students and things like that that we all know would really help a lot of students out, and yet has become much, much less valued in today's kind of educational system. What what do you think they're going to do?
Brian Beatty: Just let you say, okay, I'll just do it. I'll be a better teacher.
Brian Beatty: Or will they say, oh, okay. So now we're saving like 10% of your work from the normal stuff. Why can't we just give you? Let's give you a deal. We'll just put 5 more students in your class.
Brian Beatty: I mean, we've seen this creeping
Brian Beatty: class sizes in the Us. I mean, in in other parts of the world. We have nothing to complain about, right. 50 students, 70 students in some some of these situations, with very few resources. Yet here one of the things I think that.
Brian Beatty: and also be a conservative factor is when when the teachers or the faculty, who are kind of making decisions about support about adopting these productive tools Feel like they're just gonna be kind of slammed with more students. Then.
Brian Beatty: if it's not taking the time for a student.
Dalton Lobo Dias: Yeah, here's a. Here's an example, that kind of addresses that this is a a startup in in Canada that helps teachers automate.
Dalton Lobo Dias: streamline, their student feedback workflow. So the the platform is not doing the be assessing you still input your own assessment.
Dalton Lobo Dias: but it just sort of puts it together.
Dalton Lobo Dias: So like, for instance, you can ray things still in quantitative ways, or I one through for whatever method, do whatever scale you use.
Dalton Lobo Dias: and you have those attached to comments.
Dalton Lobo Dias: And then this program, which is, is basically a spreadsheet type thing. We'll put it together in narrative form
Dalton Lobo Dias: this kind of thing. I've done something like this. Also, this saves a lot of time.
Dalton Lobo Dias: and some schools have hired this company to do that, for to to do that part of that process for them.
Dalton Lobo Dias: But I also know that a lot of teachers are doing this because this is the only way to maintain
Brian Beatty: work. Life balance. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: one of the things we're finding, and our campus is that there some of the the writing courses, especially like the first year writing courses.
Brian Beatty: the administration has decided to add 10% more students into each class. So going rather than teaching 18, which the rest of us think. Well, that's a really small class size, you know, in graduate school we're saying, Well, you know, we're not going to talk about class size because some of ours are pretty small, but they went from 18 to 20.
Brian Beatty: It was either 18 to 20 or 20 to 22 I don't remember, but the faculty, or are very upset with, that because they don't feel like they were adequately consulted in, nor would they have agreed to this ever.
Brian Beatty: And yet, you know, with the kind of tools we have now, I think there's a there are ways to teach writing with some of these tool sets that could actually make it more efficient. But I don't think that the faculty overall are willing to kinda as long as they have some control. And the decisioning.
Brian Beatty: I don't know that they really will be willing to really, really into accept. Okay, we'll take 10% more students. And yeah, we'll be a little bit more productive with this cool tool you gave us. Because there, I think that there's the fear that. Okay, this is just a progression.
Brian Beatty: And yet, on the other side of this the the people with the resource saying, Well, you know, we don't have as many resources as we what we used to do, and we have to be able to teach more students. How are we going to do that
Brian Beatty: now? If it was a business doing this, I don't think there would be a a problem with that at all. Let's make it more productive. We get, we, basically, you know, become more productive. But on the faculty side, when they have a lot of control, at least perceive control. That's a really hard one.
Brian Beatty: It's kind of like the
Brian Beatty: the people on the tax software saying, No, Don't: automate this.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Collective bargaining. That's right. And there are a lot of schools where there is no collective bargaining, and in those schools like that it wouldn't be an issue at all. I mean it'd be an issue for the faculty, but they just have to say, okay, I guess this is the conditions that work here, and they have to decide to, you know. Continue to work there and not my guess.
Brian Beatty: You said something about the the other thing about the tax thing that you were showing. I think this is another really good example, if you think about it, if you've ever used one of any of the tax software, essentially.
Brian Beatty: you're just giving the answers to questions that the Federal Government would probably have most most of those, at least. And so there, there they are, essentially automating it.
Brian Beatty: Parcel
Brian Beatty: right. You put you put the data in there, and they kind of spit out the the numbers you You give them your credit card and boom, they'll fire the taxes for you, and so
Brian Beatty: there is, there's some levels of automation in there. And even now, for the Federal and State tax returns. There are online, fillable forms or fillable forms, but also online things like like tax act and things like that that you can use. And it's. It is pretty simple. And yet the question does remain.
Brian Beatty: Why can't it be automated? And the answer is, it could be automated. But that's not the system we have
Brian Beatty: You like changing the way we we evaluate teaching effectiveness on campuses. It's like a third rail situation.
Brian Beatty: Everyone knows it's broken, but no one has the the will to fill it to to fix it.
Brian Beatty: 12 billiondollars in revenue. Yeah. Oh, that's big money. It's almost paying. I hope they'd pay some taxes on that.
Brian Beatty: So okay. Group one. Thank you. All right. How about our Maker Space people
Maristella Tapia: at anyone.
We did a jam board.
Adam Hill: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: let's open this up.
Adam Hill: Okay.
Brian Beatty: Great. Thank you.
Maristella Tapia: So we chose the the a lot of space little money. Okay.
Maristella Tapia: Because I think you can actually do quite a bit on a small budget.
Maristella Tapia: because especially if you think about like using lower lower cost materials or repurposed, You know you know materials which is what I'm used to like, I said at at my daughter's baker space. It's a lot of like
Maristella Tapia: recyclable kind of materials that are repurposed. So we had a budget of $10,000,
Maristella Tapia: and we decided to spend that on some higher quality machines so like a couple of pieces of equipment like a kiln.
Maristella Tapia: And of course, tables and chairs are expensive. That's a big part of the budget, and we've got a pottery wheel, a tool shop.
Maristella Tapia: and sewing machines, 2 sewing machines, and a 3D printer art supplies
Maristella Tapia: a creek cut. and again using sort of
Maristella Tapia: more inexpensive or repurposed materials.
Maristella Tapia: Sometimes there's a call out for parents to bring like cardboard, or like empty mill cartons or egg cartons to school, or like empty, like 2 meter bottles. Like all of those things, they can be kind of crowdsourced from
Maristella Tapia: families. And again, it shows sort of it teaches the importance of reusing and repurposing things. Alright i'll leave it there. Anybody want to pick up the rest?
Maristella Tapia: I want to be the only one talking.
Adam Hill: I know how you feel.
Amanda Deigan: Okay, so bottom right of the page, you can see, like our like space. Physically.
Amanda Deigan: we decided that
Amanda Deigan: having different different stations
Amanda Deigan: for all of our materials would be helpful and beneficial to like creating a well organized and like well oiled machine, so to speak. So we have, like a station for like sewing, and like general crafting.
whether it be like 3D printing, sewing other kinds of art
Amanda Deigan: like glue guns, and, like I don't know those pompoms, any kind of art supply
Amanda Deigan: crafting what happened in that corner. And then at the bottom, we had talked about Monday, talked about. How, and was it in your daughter's class that they had a bike repair, or it's just something you had heard.
Maristella Tapia: No, I just. I thought it was a cool idea. It was on that article that was like one of the possible ideas like a bike repair shop. And I I thought that was such a cool idea, because, you know you can have.
Maristella Tapia: You know, kids learn how to like repair bikes, and and even kind of have it be
Maristella Tapia: link to like a community service. So, like, you know, fixing bikes that maybe are donated to the school so that you can turn around and give those bikes to people who you know need them, or lower income, or something like that. But but teaching teaching them a skill like
Amanda Deigan: repairing a bike, or those that people don't typically know anymore, like, I couldn't tell you how to repair bike. You know what I mean.
Amanda Deigan: so like that along with sewing we talked about how it just like teaches them like skills that were seen as like really important
Amanda Deigan: and just have kind of gone pushed away like push to the side due to like emerging technology and stuff.
Amanda Deigan: so it's like teaching them a new skill, like through their like use of their hands and stuff. We also, like all the way to the right, has like a gallery to like display. There are, if it's like, displayable, not like a bike repair, but like if they were to make like really cool stuff that they wanted people to see.
Amanda Deigan: Right in front of the gallery there is the like poet poetry, a pottery station where the kids that people can like, make pottery, and like
Amanda Deigan: glazing, bake it, and all the stuff.
Amanda Deigan: And then in the back, where you see my tool. What I would assume is the back.
Amanda Deigan: because
Amanda Deigan: there's like an area for material, so that would be like donated materials or materials that we purchased like the art supplies and stuff. That's where it would keep all of our materials when, like the State, like the space isn't being used.
Maristella Tapia: and then right in the middle, it's just like a a communal kind of a huge table for people to come together and work together
Amanda Deigan: if they want to work together
Brian Beatty: to eat, their lunches are supposed to bring into the space.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah. Perfect. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: Oh, yeah. Well, I wonder, with your your space limitations, if some of this could be more kind of like with a portable design.
Brian Beatty: and so you could. You could maybe have the bike shop.
Brian Beatty: you know, could be somehow being pushed out of the way when it's not actively being used, and then kind of rolled out. And now it's a now, or some of the other places, too. I'm not sure if the killing is something that can be on. I don't know if they put those on on, you know, big, heavy wheels or or not, but
Brian Beatty: a lot of the stuff you might, you might find that that would be one of the things you have to do, because you remember, you also have to put people into this.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah, I think the doorway could be like sort of by the bike shop. We like you to have a big garage door that rolls up
Maristella Tapia: because, like clay can get messy and and dusty, and you do kind of want it. Ventilation there, and i'm thinking of the clay station would have like a sink, so maybe it wouldn't be very portable, but like, so there have to be like a fixed and just having a sink in the middle is good, anyway, just so everybody can come, and like wash hands pretty easy and stuff like that.
Brian Beatty: and you might even find magically that you actually do have an art
Brian Beatty: lab, a a ceramic studio that someone was able to build many years ago. That still has an operating kill, so you wouldn't necessarily have to put it in here if it was already reusing. Yeah, yeah, kind of reusing the things you already have on campus.
Brian Beatty: I think that' be the wise things about makerspace, but asking for donations, too, is your parent communities, especially the kinds of things you need to hear. People always have stuff lean around.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah.
Adam Hill: you're all like businesses could donate to the excellent yeah. And then, like they could even like things could be made out of those, I think, brought back to local businesses. And it kind of creates this like chaotic relationship. Yeah. There. As a matter of fact, we just bought a new sewing machine.
Brian Beatty: and when we we have the old one that which is still functional. We just don't want. We just wanted something that was more more, you know, whatever would do better things. And so we had the they gave us the option, they said, Well, what we we can do is take it off your hands, and we donate it to. I think they have a like a a sewing lab for veterans.
Brian Beatty: and so they they veterans can come in and use all the the the sewing machines. That's the kind of thing you know, where you've got a shop that could actually help kind of facilitate Some of those donations would be helpful, too.
Brian Beatty: or your your your parent communities. etc. I I. When I worked at one school I went to the University or the the High School Administration, said, I need money for.
Brian Beatty: Well, I said that I didn't say I need money. That was my mistake, I think maybe. But I said I, I I want to out fit our science, our physics lab with 6 computers. So we have 6 workstations and do this really new thing called micro computer based laboratory stuff.
Brian Beatty: And I was so happy because the principal said. That sounds like a great idea. You let's do that
Brian Beatty: Once you go talk to the Development Office and we had. It was a private school, so we had a development officers. Okay, they're going to do some fundraising for me. No, no, no, no, no. They weren't going to do fundraising for me. What they were going to do is help me draft a a a letter to the parent community saying.
Brian Beatty: You know we're looking for computers that we can use in our in our physics lab, you know. Could you donate your older computers? And so what we ended up ended up being a almost a year long project for me to gather, I got. I must have had 50 different computers that were
Brian Beatty: that were donated from the parent community, because they just they didn't know what to do with them.
Brian Beatty: So they brought them in, and I took them all apart to find pieces that I could use to put together. You know Frankenstein a half a dozen, but after a year we had a half a dozen working computers that could run the first version of you know the windows software
Brian Beatty: which for at that time I thought was
Brian Beatty: a a big accomplishment. But that was an example of looking for trying to use donations even for more complicated technology. But you had to have someone who was willing to put the work into making it work, like if you're going to work on donations, especially for equipment. Do you have someone on staff
Brian Beatty: who can fix things right? I'm not sure. If you had. If you had a significant maker space. There's probably going to be someone whose job it is
Brian Beatty: at least partially to make sure the thing is running.
Brian Beatty: because it, you know all all this time.
Maristella Tapia: and that's something that we kind of wanted to emphasize to with the goals a maker space is obviously it's. It's a really important space for students to come and be creative and interact with materials, and and learn how to make things and engineer things for for those the STEM purposes and our steam purposes.
Maristella Tapia: but also the idea of like it being a space where people just learn how to repair things right.
Maristella Tapia: and you know, like using a sewing machine is something not a lot of people know how to do anymore. And so repairing clothes, repairing bikes like the idea of of using recycled materials, and then also repairing things with the focus of like
Maristella Tapia: keeping things out of the landfill, you know. And
Maristella Tapia: yeah.
Brian Beatty: yeah. we have one of our. We have a apparel program on campus. It it's more complicated than just that name, but one of the things they always did is they did a what's it called upcycling.
Brian Beatty: where they would take stray materials and create wearable garments from them, and then they would have a fashion show every year.
Brian Beatty: and the fashion show they there was a fundraiser for the program, and so they had their outreach to their community supporters, etc. But then they would. They would. Basically the kids would design and make things based out of fabrics that they were just found either donated or or reusing from some other purpose. And things like that
Brian Beatty: I don't know if they're still doing that. But that was it was a really really amazing thing. Okay.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, there you go, all right, all right. Thank you for that creative thinking, and for all your great ideas that you brought into that for those of you listening to us. Please add your comments to our discussion notes for this week. Let's see what's left to do, what's coming up.
Brian Beatty: We think we have something big coming up.
Brian Beatty: I remember right. so we have a discussion to do so.
Brian Beatty: Here's a good idea. Do the discussion over the next 2 or 3 days, right, and then at or will, as you are writing your draft of your emerging technology, demo for number 2. So pick a technology. Not it doesn't have to be one
Brian Beatty: that we have been focused on so much in this class. I mean, I try to give you some ideas of things to think about, but it can be any other technology that is used for especially improving student engagement or enhancing student engagement. Engaged learning
Brian Beatty: is kind of what we're after. With this. It doesn't mean it can't cross over into content it it can cross over into assessment if you need to. We're gonna to spend a couple of weeks talking about specific technologies for assessment, but it especially in this world of engagement. It doesn't necessarily have to be computer based, either.
Brian Beatty: Okay, it doesn't have to be a software, it doesn't have to be a platform doesn't have to be hardware. It could just be ideas, right? I My My definition of instructional technology includes the processes we use to help people learn. So instructional approaches are to sort of technology as well. So if there's something out there that you would consider emerging.
Brian Beatty: you can, you can, you know. Focus on that as well we have. We don't really talk about that that much in this class. But I I want to kind of make sure that's true as well.
Brian Beatty: One thing we're gonna try differently this this time. So if you are not going to do a live demonstration in our online class. Then what i'd like you to do is put your your presentation recording inside this discussion. Form that says, post tech demo to presentation recordings here required. If you do not present in a live session
Brian Beatty: that allows everybody to see your presentation, and not just a couple of the students that would be assigned to give you peer review in the assignment activity.
Brian Beatty: Okay. does that make sense?
Brian Beatty: We talked about that last time of trying it out, and if that works Well, then, we'll do it again for the the tech demo 3, and then we'll also do it for the the final assignment.
Brian Beatty: I think it'll be fine. It. It doesn't seem to be too hard for me to manage in that in the assignment tool itself. Put please turn your draft in once again, turn it in before class, and then it'll kick off
Brian Beatty: the peer review process no earlier than like midnight of that night. Sometimes I have a kick off on the next day, especially if someone asks me. Can you give me an extra day to put that in there? And I can also manually assign peer reviews to. If you're a day late.
Brian Beatty: i'd rather be, you know. Get you part of the process, even if it's a little late. as long as it's. Not everybody it Won't: Be everybody. Okay, that's where we're headed with this
Brian Beatty: when we come back couple of assessments, sure, third tech demo, and then we have another week of personal learning environments. This is the technology. And then the final projects. Unless someone talks me out of that.
Adam Hill: Yeah, go ahead. Sorry.
Maristella Tapia: Okay. I just had a quick question. You mentioned that. So the focus for this demo is.
Maristella Tapia: or in the this next paper is is ways to increase student engagement.
Maristella Tapia: But
Maristella Tapia: we still have to demo a technology to do that, right?
Brian Beatty: Okay. So if you're doing something that's completely not has no technology involved, i'd be very surprised. But it is possible you could. You could do the walk through of the process if you and if you plan on doing that, or you're thinking of that you're not quite sure. Then let's talk about that. But yeah.
Brian Beatty: normally, if you're using technology, and it would be good to demonstrate the technology, you can demonstrate it in the context of showing us what the instruction would look like.
Brian Beatty: Okay, so you don't have to explain completely how the how the technology worked, and then in the last minute, talk about how you would use it. An instruction right? What you could do is demonstrate that technology in the context of this is what it would be like to be in an instructional environment that's using this technology.
Maristella Tapia: Okay.
Brian Beatty: that makes sense.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah.
Maristella Tapia: But it doesn't have to surround technology. It could just be like an instructional strategy for engagement.
Brian Beatty: Yes, it could be as long as it's new and emerging in some particular way. Okay.
Maristella Tapia: Okay, thank you, and i'm and I'm doing that. I don't think everyone would agree with it with this approach. But that's that's the approach I'm going to take
Brian Beatty: because I feel like sometimes I mean, we over emphasize
Brian Beatty: the software and hardware that we're using. Not that they're not important, but but I think that the process itself of of supporting learning is what's most important. And sometimes, if we focus on that first, then we can decide whether or not we need to use technology to help us at all
Brian Beatty: right, rather than starting with technology and say, oh, how can we use this to help people learn
Brian Beatty: because it's a design piece. Yeah, I'm. Focusing more on the instructional design aspect of it, or I I just don't want to. I don't want to ignore that. I want to make sure that's part of what we're doing. Which is why there's an instructional application, that part of all of these assignments. It's not just the technology.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Adam Hill: I think Linda has a question.
Linda Kim: Oh, sorry, Linda, You have a question.
Linda Kim: May I? Is it allow for us to use
Linda Kim: the same software, that we did demonstration on the first one, and then by focus on engagement on a second. This demonstration, or do you have to find a new
Linda Kim: technology to? You know. Well, I would say, that would be okay as long as it's really clear. And it's quite different than what you did the first time.
Brian Beatty: right? Because if you do the first one and you're focused on content. And there's an engage in an engaging quality with the technology. Then then that's that's fine. But the second one shouldn't be the same thing. It might be okay. We can use the same platform. But here, now we're going to design something that's really designed for engagement.
Brian Beatty: And yeah, there's some, maybe some content that comes in with that. But it's really being designed for engagement. And so it it. It ought to be distinguishable that way. And if you can't find that distinguishing key characteristics, then probably use a different look for a different software
Brian Beatty: Okay understood. Thank you.
Brian Beatty: Because a lot of the tools that we're talking about can be used for lots of different things. Right?
Linda Kim: Right? Right?
Adam Hill: Okay, I don't have a question brewing in there. Yeah, i'm sorry. So with if we're planning to come to campus.
Brian Beatty: i'm just trying to figure out how. Oh, yeah, let's talk about that. So next week, if we we're here. If you're here on campus for the the VR. Experience, we'll we'll wrap up probably by 6 30. That's kind of the plan, so that at 70'clock, if you want to stay on campus and do a live presentation, we'll that we can go actually go over to Bur call.
Brian Beatty: which is where we're assigned our classroom. I have my I and keys, and we can. You can do a live presentation actually in person, if you want to, and we'll have the zoom thing going in the camera and etc., and so zoom room on the camera
Brian Beatty: and so what we could, we could. We could make that work which is like used to be the way we always did these. So that's a possibility to, or you can just say you know what
Brian Beatty: I think. I'm just gonna do a recording and head home, or or whatever you want to do.
Adam Hill: Okay.
Adam Hill: i'll figure that out. But but we should meet. We'll plan to meet at the library.
Brian Beatty: 50'clock is, if you're there late, fine, I will send out an email that includes, like a map highlighted. Some of you have never been to campus, I imagine, and that you know it's good to have a few words that just describe where to go to, but if you get lost, it's a digital media studio
Brian Beatty: in the library. I think it's a a library 260, and it's on their website, and i'll have the link to the website on the message I send out to those who told me they're coming. I think I I think we have like 6 people who said they're interested.
Brian Beatty: so should be fun.
Brian Beatty: And I I I plan on stopping by tomorrow just to talk to them as well to make sure that I've I've done this before many, many years ago.
Brian Beatty: when it was just new.
Brian Beatty: And so I i'm gonna go back in and just make sure. I know what i'm we're getting into.
Maristella Tapia: I'm. One of the people who said I was interested in I am. I just worry a little bit because I got so motion sick once with
Maristella Tapia: I think I it was like this Disneyland right? I forgot. I think it was like millennium, falcon, or something something, and it's like one of those where you're sitting in
Maristella Tapia: a a chair, and it's moving. But like
Maristella Tapia: it's a screen, and it looks very real. And it's anyway.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, this is this is: we get motion sick. I did it. I I think of this set up. They typically don't it's not seeded. I I don't know if it's seeded, or I don't remember, but what you can also do it. There are 2 large screens, and there's usually there's 2 stations going at one time, and so you can watch what someone has seen
Brian Beatty: projected onto the screen. If you don't want to actually have the headset on yourself, and what they'll do is they'll they'll let piece of them wear the headset. Then they'll have a you know the the call white to wipe it down in between different users. And that's how that'll work.
Maristella Tapia: Okay.
Brian Beatty: Okay?
Brian Beatty: Well, i'm looking forward to it. And i'm looking forward to reading your paper drafts next week, and also being part of the discussion this week. So have a good evening.
Brian Beatty: I will see you online, and a few few people in person next week, too.
Amanda Deigan: See? Yeah.
Brian Beatty: bye, bye.